***Under Construction***

# Welcome!
This is something I've created for myself as a starting template for a simple website. This includes Gulp for task running, Babel for translating Javascript, Webpack for bundling scripts, PostCSS for CSS processing, and other thing. See Useful Tools for an updated list of tools already available.

If you've stumbled upon this, feel free to use it.

---

## Get Started
This starting point was created to make your life easier with useful gulp tasks (both development and production), scripts, and a few css rules.

To get started, you can build off the existing files, clean out what you don't want, or choose one of the clean-slate gulp tasks. These clean-slate tasks can leave you with minimal content in the index.html and styles--giving you a starting point without too much to clean out. See Gulp Tasks for more details.

The files you want to make changes to (html, css, js) are under ~/src. See The Structure from details on the directories and their content.

**Make changes to the files within ~/src only. ~/tmp (temporary) and ~/dist (distribution) are generated by gulp tasks, and any changes made in those directories may be overridden without warning.**

---

## The Structure
Here is an overview of the file structure to give you an idea of what they are for and where to find stuff.

**~/src**

This is the working directory. Make your changes within this directory then propagate those changes using the available gulp tasks.

**~/src/assets/scripts**

This is where scripts should be defined and imported. Keep custom scripts within the modules directory and import vendor modules into the file Vendors.js. App.js is processed via the gulp scripts task, so only modules imported within this file will be included.

**~/src/assets/styles**

This is where all styles should be defined. Define globals and general styles under the base directory and the styles for different elements under the modules directory. Import those style files into the styles.css file. This styles.css file is processed via the gulp styles task.

**~/tmp/**

Files generated from the source code for a development environment. This is the directory served to the browser when previewing the site for development. See Gulp Tasks for more details.

_Don't make any changes to the contents of this directory as any changes may be overridden by any of the gulp development tasks._

**~/dist/**

Files generated from the source code for a production environment. These files are intended to be minimized for performance. See Gulp Tasks to see how to populate this directory and preview its contents in the browser.

_Don't make any changes to the contents of this directory as any changes may be overridden by any of the gulp production tasks._

**~/node_modules**

Third party modules required (or at least useful) for this site. If the directory is empty run: npm install. Go to ~/package.json to see the list of (dev)dependencies.

_Do not modify any of these files. Any changes will be lost once the module is updated._

**~/gulp**

Contains the logic for running all gulp tasks, with the exception of the default task. The default class and task imports are found in the file ~/gulpfile.js.

---

## Useful Tools
Here is a list of modules already incorporated in this site to make life a it easier. Based on when this is used, some of these modules may need to be updated or replaced.

**Gulp**

"Gulp is a toolkit for automating painful or time-consuming tasks in your development workflow, so you can stop messing around and build something." See more at gulpjs.com/

You can find all Gulp tasks designed for this project under ~/gulp/tasks. The gulp config file can be found at root (~/gulpfile.js).

**BrowserSync**

"Time-saving synchronized browser testing." See more at browsersync.io/

BrowserSync is currently set up with the gulp tasks "watch" and "previewDist"

_NOTE: If the smooth scroll between anchor links is jumpy, this may be a result of BrowserSync compensating for multiple browsers or browser windows. Close all but one browser window to see if the issue persists, as it may be an issue unique to the development environment._

**PostCSS**

"A tool for transforming CSS with JavaScript." See more at postcss.org

PostCSS is the main tool used to process the CSS for this project. There is a series of PostCSS plugins including autoprefixer, nested, mixins and more. See the full list and the styles task under ~/gulp/tasks/styles.task.js

**Webpack**

"At its core, webpack is a static module builder for modern JavaScript applications." See more at webpack.js.org

For this project, webpack is split into three config files found at root: webpack.common.js, webpack.dev.js, and webpack.prod.js. These are designed to customize the webpack process for different environments (production vs development). Webpack bundles the main script files App.js and Vendors.js found under ~/src/assets/scripts. The webpack process may be triggered through one of the gulp script found under ~/gulp/tasks/scripts.task.js

**Babel**

"Babel is a toolchain that is mainly used to convert ECMAScript 2015+ code into a backwards compatible version of JavaScript in old browsers or environments." See more at babeljs.io/

The Babel config file for this project is found under root ~/.babelrc

**Modernizr**

"Modernizr tells you what HTML, CSS and JavaScript features the user's browser has to offer" (e.g. flexbox, css animation, etc...). For more information go to modernizr.com

For this project the Modernizr is triggered by the modernizr gulp task (~/gulp/tasks/modernizr.task.js), which is intended to precede the scripts gulp task. This task creates a modernizr script file (~/src/assets/tmp) that is then imported into the vendors script file by an import statement (~/src/assets/scripts/Vendors.js)

**jQuery**
"jQuery is a fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library." See more at jquery.com

This already imported into ~/src/assets/scripts/App.js

**Waypoints**
"Waypoints is the easiest way to trigger a function when you scroll to an event." See more at imakewebthings.com/waypoints.

The Waypoints module is already incorporated in the SectionChange and StickyHeader modules under ~/src/assets/scripts/modules.

**Git Ignore**
There is already a .gitignore file at the root of the project with common files/directories to ignore. It's best to check the contents of this file to make sure Git will keep track of the right files for your structure preferences.

**Responsive Media Queries**
Look under ~/src/assets/styles/base/\_mixins.css to see which mixins are available for creating a responsive design based on the size of the user's device (includes use examples). These mixins are processed using PostCSS.

**Has No JS**

The body tag is given a 'has-no-js' class until removed by script logic, so the styling of devices without JavaScript may be handled accordingly.

This logic can be found within ~/src/assets/scripts/App.js.

**Check Has Touch**

Switch class names on initial user touch event. The html tag is given a the classes waiting-for-touch and has-no-touch until the user touches the screen--then those classes will be removed and has-touch will be added. This is so you can plan your js and css around the user's device (e.g. only having hover styles for a device without touch).

CheckHasTouch.class.js can be found under ~/src/assets/scripts/modules.

**Section Change** (on click and scroll)

Change selector classes based on which "section" the user scrolls to or which anchor link the user clicks. This changes which links have an active class, scrolls to the section (if via click event), and changes the data-section value in the body tag. This may be used for styling menu links and such.

This module is currently dependent on the Waypoints module. SectionChange.class.js can be found under ~/src/assets/scripts/modules.

**Smooth Scroll**

Overrides the default behavior of an anchor link and scroll the document to the section requested by the user.

This behavior is triggered through the SectionChange module, but the SmoothScroll has its own file. SmoothScroll.class.js can be found under ~/src/assets/scripts/modules.

**Sticky Header**

Give the header or top banner a selector class based on the document's position.

This module is currently dependent on the Waypoints module. SectionChange.class.js can be found under ~/src/assets/scripts/modules.

**Click To Copy**

Copy the contents of an element to the clipboard by clicking it. Add the class 'click-to-copy' to an element.

This behavior is enabled by the ClickToCopy module (~/src/assets/scripts/modules/ClickToCopy.class.js), which is imported and instantiated by App.js. There is also a CSS file for styling these elements (~/src/assets/styles/modules/\_click-to-copy.css)

_View the package.json file a the root of this project and the modules under ~/src/assets/scripts to see other useful tools/modules that are already included._

---

## Don't Forget
_Wait!_ Before publishing your site, make sure to check these items off you list!

* Change the title tag in ~/src/index.html

* Make the site accessible! See the current requirements at w3.org/TR/html-aria

* _Some more things you should consider to make your site more accessible:_

  * Is your site fully functional with just a keyboard? Tab through your links to see. If you have some kind of drag interaction, make sure there is a keyboard alternative.

  * Have a "skip to main content" link at the top of the page/html before your main navigation.

  * Use strong and em tags when the words need emphasis. Use b and i tags when it's just for style.

  * Don't depend on color alone to convey meaning. Things (such as selected links) should be clear even in grayscale.

  * Be purposeful with your image alts. If the image is a link, describe the destination--not the image itself. If the image is purely decorative, the user does not need an alt description. Set the alt to null if no text is required. This prevents screen-readers from reading the image url to the user.

  * Change the default text size if your browser preferences. Does the text size of your site change? If not, try use rem for text sizing. Can you still see everything? Adjust your CSS to accommodate.

  * Is your site fully functional without JavaScript enabled? Disable Javascript in your browsers and test it out.

* Insert your logo. Or at least delete the placeholder. (~/src/assets/images/logo.png)
Create and apply the favicon (or at least delete the placeholder provided). I recommend using FAVIC-O-MATIC for converting your image and generating head tag links!

* Check your site on a range of browser sizes and devices. Make sure it it's responsive and still looks good.

* Make user responsive images sizing for different devices/screen sizes. NOTE: if using something like LazyImages, make sure there is no conflict with Waypoints. If so there try incorporating the FixLazyWaypoints module found under ~src/assets/scripts/modules

* Test the production build (gulp build) before you need it. Modules are updated all the time and things may not always work as expected. Make sure the site looks good and the files you want compressed are compressed. Remember you can preview the production build by running the gulp task gulp build then gulp previewDist.

* Test on all browsers and devices you can get your hands on.

---

## Gulp Tasks
To run gulp tasks: in the terminal/command line, navigate into the root directory and enter 'gulp' followed by the command name. Example: gulp watch

See all the gulp files under ~/gulp. The default gulp task is in the file ~/gulpfile.js

### Development

* **gulp** (default)

Triggers the tasks "gulp dev" then "gulp watch"

* **gulp copyGeneral**

Copy general files into the temporary directory (~/tmp)

* **gulp dev**

Process html/style/script source files using a development environment. The resulting files can be found in ~/tmp. These files are intended for development, not distribution.

This task does not copy over other files such as images. See the other gulp tasks for those functions.

* **gulp favicons**

Copy the favicon image file(s) from ~/src/assets/favicons into ~/tmp

* **gulp html**

Copy ~/src/index into ~/tmp while injecting script and style addresses.

* **gulp images**

Create optimized versions of the image files from ~/src/assets/images. These optimized images will be placed under ~/tmp/assets/images

* **gulp modernizr**

Generate a modernizr script file within the script assets directory (~/src/assets/scripts). The current Vendors.js (~/src/assets/scripts) file imports this file into the site.

This task is triggered automatically by the task gulp scripts

* **gulp scripts**

Bundles scripts into a single file under ~/tmp/assets/scripts.

* **gulp styles**

Processes PostCSS and bundles script files into a single file under ~/tmp/assets/styles. Several PostCSS plugins are used to form the resulting CSS, including: autoprefixer, postcss-mixins, and postcss-nested.

* **gulp watch**

This will run browsersync and open a browser window to view the development version of the site. If no content is displayed, run the task gulp or gulp dev first. Then any other copy tasks such as gulp images, gulp favicons, and gulp copyGeneral.

While it is running, the watch task will keep an eye on changes to html, js, and css files within the src file and reload or sync the browser so you can see a live version of the development site.

### Production
_Note:_ Many of the gulp development tasks have a production version that may be accessed by appending '--prod' to the task name. These are not intended to be accessed independently (though possible) but will be triggered via the task: gulp build.

* **gulp build**

Run all tasks for greeting a full site suitable to a production environment in the distribution folder (~/dist).

These tasks include production versions of the gulp development tasks, such as: gulp html--prod, gulp scripts--prod, gulp styles--prod, etc.

* **gulp previewDist**

This will run browsersync and open a browser window to view the distribution/production version of the site. If no content is displayed, run the task gulp build first to generate the distribution files.

### Clean-Slate
Want to start coding, but don't want to clean out all this HTML and CSS that you don't want to use? Here are the tasks for you! These tasks can be run to clean out the source code to varying degrees:

Clean task give you a good starting point with elements and selectors you can customize. Use this if you want to have some basic structure when starting out.
Bare tasks give you the bare bones that you then can fill in as you wish. Use this if you're just here for the pre-made gulp tasks and want to make your own structure.
Full tasks give you the initial starting point of this site (for whatever reason you might like it).

_Want to see the templates before you commit? All template files are located within ~/gulp/templates_

***WARNING:*** These tasks are designed to override existing source content (including this file). Make sure you are ready before running these commands. If run by mistake, check for your original files under ~/.trashed.

_You may want to delete these gulp tasks after initial use to avoid loss of your custom source code. For more information, see ~/gulp/clean-slate/README.md_

***ALWAYS BACK UP YOUR CODE***

* **gulp clean**

Console will log a brief summary of the Clean-Slate Clean and what tasks are available. Nothing will be moved/deleted/created.

* **gulp clean --html**

Replace the existing html (~/src/index.html) with a template containing useful content to get you going faster. See template ~/gulp/clean-slate/templates/html/index--clean.html

* **gulp clean --css**

Replace the existing styles (~/src/assets/styles) with templates containing few css styles and modular files. See style files under ~/gulp/clean-slate/templates/styles/styles--clean

* **gulp clean --html --css**

Run both clean html and clean css.

* **gulp bare**

Console will log a brief summary of the Clean-Slate Bare and what tasks are available. Nothing will be moved/deleted/created.

* **gulp bare --html**

Replace the existing html (~/src/index.html) with a template containing the bare minimals. See template ~/gulp/clean-slate/templates/html/index--bare.html

* **gulp bare --css**

Replace the existing styles (~/src/assets/styles) with the bare minimal styles structure. See file structure ~/gulp/clean-slate/templates/styles/styles--bare

* **gulp bare --html --css**

Run both bare css and bare html.

* **gulp full**

Console will log a brief summary of the Clean-Slate Full and what tasks are available. Nothing will be moved/deleted/created.

* **gulp full --html**

Replace the existing html (~/src/index.html) with the initial html content (what you're likely looking at now). See template ~/gulp/clean-slate/templates/html/index--full.html

* **gulp full --css**

Replace the existing styles (~/src/assets/styles) with the initial full styles structure. See file structure ~/gulp/clean-slate/templates/styles/styles--full

* **gulp full --html --css**

Run both full css and full html.

---
See the GitHub repository: github.com/MirandaKim/readystart

Original template created by Miranda Hoover
